For a client-server TCP project, the README should detail what the project does, the environment setup, and instructions for running both the client and server. Here’s a sample README structure tailored for a TCP client-server project:


---

TCP Client-Server Application

A simple client-server application using TCP to demonstrate data communication over a network. The server listens for incoming connections, and the client connects to the server to send and receive messages.

Table of Contents

1. Project Overview


2. Requirements


3. Installation


4. Usage


5. Example


6. Contributing


7. License



Project Overview

This project consists of a TCP server and client built using socket programming. The server handles incoming client connections and processes requests, and the client sends requests to the server, demonstrating basic TCP communication.

Requirements

Python 3.x (or relevant language)

Network access between client and server (if on different machines)


Python Libraries:

socket


Installation

1. Clone this repository:

git clone https://github.com/username/tcp-client-server.git
cd tcp-client-server


2. Install any dependencies (if applicable).



Usage

Starting the Server

1. Navigate to the server directory and run the server script:

python server.py

The server will start listening on a predefined IP and port.


2. You can modify the IP address and port in the server code if you need a different configuration.



Running the Client

1. In a new terminal, navigate to the client directory and run the client script:

python client.py


2. The client will connect to the server's IP and port and will prompt for input to send messages.



Configuration

Both server.py and client.py contain configurations for IP and port. Adjust these settings to match your network setup.

Example

1. Start the Server:

python server.py


2. Run the Client:

python client.py


3. Sample Communication:

The client sends a message: "Hello Server"

The server responds with: "Hello Client"




Contributing

Feel free to contribute to this project by submitting issues or pull requests. When contributing, please follow

